WE saw in prev lecture how API was controlling our web page 

Everything react can do. You can do that with normal HTML, CSS and JavaScript.Why do we then use react ?

It makes your developer experience easy 
It make you write less code and do more on the web page


react makes our code experience very fast and also optimizes something on the web page. SO that things happen very fast. 

First we will clean our code as we have written everything on the single file before 

Best practice is to make seperate file for seperate components. 

Our coded files will now be in src folder 
so put App.js in src 


always try to give same name to file which you have given to a component 

After seperating all the components. Now if you will run it will give error by saying that header is not defined so we have to import that header component to our main file where we are using 

but before importing we have to export it from that file 

There is 2 way we can export 

using ->  normal export 
export default Header

In one file u can only have one default export . It is used generally when there is only one thing to export 


2-> named export 

If u want to export multiple things from the same file then we use named export before 
export (nameof the thing )



whenever u have a hardcoded data U should never keep those things in your components file 

so make a folder name (utils) inside src 
and name it as constant.js and then paste it, export it from there.

Now we will try to make our app interactive 
by adding functionality which is adding button for top rated Restaurant 

button have attribute onClick which takes callback function as an argument 

<button
        onClick={function () {
          
        }}
      >
        Top rated restaurant
      </button>


If u will change the list of the restaurant then also list will not be updated . But my Uid should also change then but its not?

react is fast in dom manipulation 

If u want to keep your data and UI layer consistent with each other that is where react comes into picture means if the data changes my UI will automattically changes 

To do this react comes with some superpowers

Right now our restrolist is a normal js variable but if your give list super powers
means we will make the list as a state variable 

and for that we use hooks which  is known as useState 

react hook is a normal js function which is given to us by react but that function has some super power that has some logic written inside it . Which gives us some utilities 

1-> useState()
2-> useEffect()

And we import this from react as a named import 

whenever we will say react hook we are talking about utility function. 


useState is used to create a state variable 
why it is called as state variable?
because it maintains the state of the application 

whenever a state variable updates react will rerenders the component.

react will remove the body and push the updated body quickly

What makes a large application super fast . React will make these dom operations super fast and efficient 

react is only good at DOM operation 

It keeps your data layer in sync with UI layer


react uses Reconciliation Algoirthm 
is also known as react fiber 

We have a res-container and we have 15 restro card 
My UI chnages to filter these 15 cards to 5 cards 

when we have 15 cards UI React creates a virtual DOM for it. 

Actual Dom contains the tags like <Div> <div> u
div ke under div

virutal DOM is the representation of the actual DOM means

if u will console.log(any component) then this will print a object . And this object is a virtual DOM 

same with react element 
it gives object and this object is a virtual DOm 

Diff algo : Finds out the DIff b/w the updated virtual DOM and prev Vrital DOM and will then actualy calculate the diff. And then update the DOM 

means 15 cards to 3 cards 

In react 16 a new algorithm to update the DOM came out known as react fiber. Finds out the diff and update the DOM. 

Finding out the diff between the two HTML code is tough then 
Finding out the diff between the two object

React keeps a track of all the virtual DOM(object representation of actual DOM) 

means when i will click on the button then new object of actual DOM will be created and then react will calculate the diff b/w two virtal DOM and updating the DOM  

thats why react is most popular in the  makred 

react is fast because it is doing the efficinet DOM manipulation

everythime my state variable changes react will find the diff and updaet the dOM .

react is keeping an eye on this state variable 

There is a second argumnet when we use useState
because there should be some trigger to start the reconciliation algorithm 

You can also write usestate like this 

const arr = useState(list);

const [newlist,setnewlist] = arr;