First for building an app you have to do is your planning 

How our app should look like

We will be having header and inside it we will be having logo in left and in right side there will be some links Home about cart 

body

  search button 

  Restrocard -> image ,title, star rating 


in footer there will be links  


Now we will decide what will be the components in our application 

There will be main App component in which our application will be and our app will be divided into 3 pieces , header,body and footer


Header 
 - Logo 
 - Nav items 
Body 
 - Search component 
 - RestaurantContainer
    - Restrocard
     - image
     - Name of the res,rating,cuisines,
Footer 
 - Copyright
 - Links
 - Address
 - Contact 


we will first create App component which will be our top level component where all our app component reside 

Whenever we are repeating code then we make a seperate component for it like in restrocard  
so we will make a restrocard component

For inline styling component inside jsx

we do 
 style = {{
  backgroundColor : "yellow" 
 }}
 style takes js object inside curly braces to run js 

 How we can make the card dynamic means if the first restro card is KFC then the second restro card will be other 


 Props :-> suppose i want to dynamically pass data to some component. We can pass it as a prop to a component 

 Props are just normal arguments to a function.

passing a prop to a component as just as passing a argument to a function 

 <RestaurantCard resname = "KFC" rating = "3.4" />
        <RestaurantCard resname = "mangal" rating = "4.2" />

    as u can see above we are passing props to a component props means properties 

    and this prop will wrap inside object named as props 


whenever u want to pass dynamic data to a component u pass it as a prop 


How will data come from backend to us -> in the form of json 

Install the plugin json viewer so that u can see JSon in good format 

config Driven UI : when u open a swiggy u see a screen grab a 50 percent of free delivery 
The offers are available me in different state 
if there is there someother offers in kolkate, or in delhi the cards will be different. The dishes will be different and it can happen that there will be no offers in some other place. There will be no courousel. We will not make differnet application for every state.
OUr website is driven by Data . This is known as config driven UI.

Controlling Your UI based on the Data, using config and that config comes from backend 
ALL the UI will be driven by config 

If i want to change the color of UI for different state then i will set color in backend which will drive our UI

There is a UI layer and data layer . Both of them makes a frontend work 


Each child in the list should have a unique key property means each of the list item should be uniquely represented 

But why we need key? 

react optimizes its render cycle . When there are components at same level. These component should have unqiue id. Suppose if a new restro came in and there is no id then react will rerender all the restro cards. React doesnot know at what place we have to put that restro card.So react will remove all the cards and then re-reder all the cards on to DOM becaue react doesnt know which is the new card which is added. It will treat all the restro card as same.

If we have put the ID to all the cards. Then react will know that all the prev cards are old and react dont have to render them. So react will only render the new card 

React itself says never use index as keys becaue it is a bad practice but if the id is not given then u can use index 